>>REGINA MEREDITH: For
thousands of years,
people have been using astrology
to rule countries, plan
military strategy,
choose a wedding date,
and get a jump on the markets.
Monte Farber has been using
his knowledge of astrology,
as well as his
psychic abilities,
to guide thousands of people,
including some of the world's
wealthiest, to favorable
outcomes in the world of money.
He is with us today to give us
a glimpse of what we can expect
in 2013, and a glimpse back
at why certain events occurred
in the past which will give
us a context to our future.
Does that sound about right?
>>MONTE FARBER:
It does actually.
>>REGINA: I'm glad to hear it.
>>FARBER: Not too complex.
It's just the past
and the future.
>>REGINA: It's just the
past and the future.
I think that there is
probably no single subject
on the planet that causes
more stress, anxiety,
and overall fear than money.
And so, to have access
to someone like you that
can help people get a little
jump on what's going to happen
is a real gift.
And you do this at large,
not just for individuals,
although you've guided some
of the world's wealthiest.
>>FARBER: I do.
I like to do it on my
website, and I do it
on Facebook and Twitter.
And every once in
a while I do what
I call tweetchings, which
I'm trying to teach people
astrology for themselves
because I won't last forever.
And I think that
it's not something
that I have some
amazing gift, I'm
just using principles
that have been around
for thousands of years
and applying them
to the modern age with an
eye towards bringing them
into reality.
But the reality of today is not
the reality of four years ago.
>>REGINA: No.
And we're going to
get into all of that
because we have
different factors.
We have corruptions in the
program that have occurred,
and that really skews any kind
of natural cosmic influence.
>>FARBER: Yes.
Well if you're talking about
the stock market in particular,
I won't work with
anyone who won't
admit to me that the
stock market is gambling--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>FARBER: --because if
they won't admit that then
we're not going to get along.
>>REGINA: That's true.
But I mean, there were, in
times past-- it's gambling,
but you could-- like the Elliott
wave-- you could kind of rely
on certain mass psyche changes
of direction throughout time,
and there were patterns to that.
I mean, it's--
>>FARBER: Yeah, because the
house wasn't rigged then.
But now the house is rigged
with computer trading.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And we're going to go
into that in a little bit.
And I thought what
we'd do is start out
to create a little bit
of a framework for this.
Are there certain planets
and certain positions
that have the greatest impact
on the economy in general.
>>FARBER: Well it's interesting
that in your introduction
you mentioned the
past and the future
because that's really the way
you have to approach it now.
What was it like in the past
and what is it like now?
Because the future
coming up is going
to be even more different.
In the past, it was
mainly Jupiter and Saturn
that people would use.
And Saturn is the last planet
you can see with the naked eye.
And Saturn has to do with
structure, restriction.
Saturn is a builder.
Saturn is Chronos, time,
you know, the god Chronos
and Saturn are the same.
When Jupiter is ascendant
in the chart of a company,
because companies have
charts-- how to do them
is a whole other-- like, the
United States has a chart,
different countries have charts.
When Jupiter is active
then there's expansion.
When Saturn is active
there's contraction.
The other planets you can look
at but they're more long term
moving.
Jupiter is in a
sign for one year;
Saturn's in a sign
for 2 and 1/2 years.
So what an astrology
chart is is a big clock.
It sort of looks like
the Gaiam logo actually.
>>REGINA: The flower
of life a bit.
>>FARBER: The flower of life.
And an astrology chart
looks like a pizza
with 12 slices and 10 toppings,
and those are the planets.
The moon, of course,
is very important.
Astrologers in the past
who focused on finances
did focus mainly on
Jupiter and Saturn
and sometimes on
Uranus and Neptune
because when Uranus
comes into play--
let's say Uranus
and Jupiter come
into play, that's
explosive growth.
And when Uranus and
Saturn comes into play,
it's explosive contraction.
So I use keywords to teach
people in these tweechings
that I do because if you use the
keywords it's not complicated.
>>REGINA: Right.
However, what is
complicated is when
you have to start
plotting the chart.
So for example, if you have a
couple of different countries--
and we'll get to this in
more detail later-- but
you just said each
country has a chart.
We're looking at a very
strange dynamic globally,
what's happening to the
economy with a lot of fraud
and corruption, and as
you say, computers taking
over the trading and so forth.
>>FARBER: That's
the biggest one.
>>REGINA: And yet
at the same time,
each country that's
involved has its own chart,
and its own dynamic
and rise and fall.
And that makes it more complex
in terms of trying to even--
>>FARBER: That's why the
psychic comes in so happily.
Because that's why I
won't work with people
who won't admit
that it's gambling
because in gambling
you have a 50/50 chance
it's going to be heads or tails.
And when you're using the
psychic, all of a sudden,
you're favoring yourself rather
than the house's favorites.
If you're accurate as
a psychic, which I am,
I'm accurate 70,
80% of the time,
you can make money with that
kind of an accuracy rate.
The house-- I think
in Las Vegas it's
60 something percent,
their advantage.
And they do OK.
>>REGINA: They do OK.
But then, that's because you're
able to tap into the prevailing
energies and the
movement of energies.
>>FARBER: Yes.
I'm sure the people
who watch Gaiam TV know
about the Akashic record.
Or if they're into
quantum physics
they know about
the quantum field.
Well what I tell people
is, being psychic
is not learning how to tap
into the Akashic record
or learning how to tap
into the quantum field,
you're part of it.
You're tapped in all the time.
It's learning how to
get out of your own way
and getting that information.
>>REGINA: Yeah, taking
those filters off so
you can access it.
>>FARBER: Taking
those filters off.
Exactly.
And I do that.
I know how to just shut myself
up because, at a certain point,
I don't want to hear
what I have to say.
I'm like everybody else.
>>REGINA: You get bored
with yourself too.
>>FARBER: Because I'm wrong.
But the Akashic field and the
quantum field is always right.
And so when I'm wrong it's
not because the psychic gift,
or whatever, the
voice is wrong, it's
because I didn't listen right.
So I'm trying to-- astrology
helps, it gives me an edge,
but when you're dealing
with that many variables,
you're better off
using your intuition.
And so many mathematical
inventions, so many inventions
of all kinds, have been
occurred to people in dreams
or when they got out
of their own way.
>>REGINA: Yeah, when
they're in an alpha state,
they're just spaced out,
and boom, it arrives.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
And so that's why
they come to me.
And I got people
into Apple at 65,
so I have a lot
of happy clients,
and I have people-- The
weirdest thing I ever did
was getting people into
AIG when it was $0.21.
>>REGINA: Oh, I bet.
>>FARBER: They tripled
their money in two weeks.
I mean, so it's-- the
psychic stuff is--
>>REGINA: Some of it
looks counterintuitive.
>>FARBER: It sounds crazy, yes.
And I say that to them.
I say, to me, I wouldn't do
it, but that's what I hear.
And so some of them
did and some of them
didn't, and some of them
tripled their money.
>>REGINA: And we all
have those moments
where we think, oh
my god, why didn't I
just listen to what
I knew to be true.
I just talked to a friend I
hadn't talked to in 12 years,
just a few days ago, and
said, first off, you know,
I should have listened to you.
And he's, what?
What are you talking about it?
And I said, I should
have bought Apple at 7.
He said no, $7, I swear to
god, the company still has--
>>FARBER: It's like Forest Gump.
>>REGINA: --something left.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, he invests a lot in it.
So anyway, even you know,--
>>FARBER: And it's knowing
when to sell, also.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>FARBER: That's
the harder part.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So now let's go back
to 2008 because that's
a really critical turning
point in, certainly,
the history of
the United States,
but also the global economy.
>>FARBER: It was a big hiccup.
>>REGINA: What was
going on there,
and was there a reflection
of that in times past?
And how did that
look according--
say, in contrast to
the Great Depression
or other big downturns?
>>FARBER: It's always
fear and greed, right?
That's what they always say.
And in 2008, the
credit default swaps
reached the point that--
There is something called
derivatives, and
what they've done
is they keep inventing
financial instruments.
I actually met the person who
invented what's called a SPYDR,
which is S-P-
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I
haven't heard of that.
>>FARBER: Y-D-R. And he
made a fortune inventing
these financial instruments that
are basically cobbled together.
It's like having a car with
six wheels and two of them
turn one way and two of
them turn the other way.
But they make their money on
the selling of the instruments,
and they don't really think
about what could happen.
It's as if the
economy of the world
is tied to this casino
with the most greedy people
running the casino, and--
>>REGINA: Totally rigged.
>>FARBER: There's 60-- I
think it's over $60 trillion
worth of unlooked at financial
instruments, the credit
default swaps, derivatives,
that are unregulated.
They never see the light of day.
And what it is is they're
insuring each other
against someone
not paying a loan.
But what happens is if it
hiccups even a little bit,
the repercussions
are what we saw.
And then they let
Goldman Sachs go down.
And then-- I mean,
not Goldman Sachs they
let down, the other one.
I had a friend, I won't
say his name, he kept--
>>REGINA: Bear Stearns.
>>FARBER: Yes.
He was going to be working
for Bear Stearns, and he said,
are they going to go down?
I said, well, I'm
reading the owner,
and he thinks everything's fine.
And he did, right up
until they took him out.
>>REGINA: But if
you're looking at it
from kind of a
cosmological point of view,
what was going on.
I mean, because these
influences-- yeah,
we have human nature,
we have-- and then
we have the excessive greed
and excessive fear that
causes these big
wobbles in the market,
but what was going
on cosmically?
>>FARBER: There was
nothing astrological.
>>REGINA: No?
>>FARBER: There was
nothing astrological
that you would look
at it 10 years before
and say, oh my god, in 2008 it's
really going to hit the fan.
There with there was
nothing like that.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now what about, say,
in the US's chart?
There has been a
now spec that's been
going on I think for
a couple of years now
that is moving into a
period of revolution.
>>FARBER: Any time you hear
revolution, fellow astrologers,
it's Uranus.
Uranus is the planet
of revolution.
And America is a revolutionary
country to begin with.
But there's three
charts for America.
So when you do
charts for America,
you have to reconcile the
three if you really want to go.
You can see why I
became more of a psychic
because you can spend all
day-- Winston Churchill said
he wanted to have a one-handed
economist because they'd always
come and say, on the one hand
this on the other hand this.
But I want to give people
a definitive answer
because the people I work
for, if I'm not right,
they won't work with me again.
It's just like the
movie business.
If you're not good,
you don't work.
>>REGINA: Right.
So, I guess what I
was trying to get to,
where my mind's going
in a roundabout way,
is if we're inching up toward
a period of revolution,
social, political, revolution--
>>FARBER: You mean now?
>>REGINA: Yes, over
the last couple years
and now, and even more so in
the next couple of years, then
2012 was a really
pivotal year in terms
of the steaming up that energy.
Than it would seem only
logical that you're
going to have some kind of
erratic behavior in the market.
>>FARBER: Oh, for sure.
>>REGINA: A manic or
a depressive whatever.
>>FARBER: I do
think there's going
to be a lot of trouble
in the Middle East.
I mean, you don't have
to be a genius psychic
or astrologer to see that.
But I actually fear
sometimes, because of my work
with my friend Sitchin, that
the past indicates the future.
And there was a nuclear exchange
in around 2000 whatever, 100
BC, there might actually
be a nuclear exchange
in the Middle East.
That would completely
destabilize the markets.
But the markets don't need
help destabilizing themselves--
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>FARBER: --because of what you
said before, program trading.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>FARBER: They trade on fear.
And if they see little
movements, they trade big.
And it's very hard.
If someone comes
to me and says--
and they're a small
investor-- I say,
there's other ways to do it.
I mean, commodities still
have a modicum of connection
to the real world.
And they, like stocks,
were originated
as a hedge for
farmers because you're
going to have to deliver.
And so you do all these things--
The way investments used
to actually be, to have a
company that made a product.
No longer.
Now, it's financial
instruments, derivatives.
That's where the big
money is, so that's
where the really
greedy people are.
And they're smart.
Just because they're
greedy doesn't
mean that they're
not really smart.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's look at this from
the perspective of the psychic.
>>FARBER: OK.
>>REGINA: So 2008 happened.
They say, oh, and we've
been on the path to recovery
ever since.
Actually, I don't
really see that.
>>FARBER: Me either.
>>REGINA: I know more
people that are--
>>FARBER: Out of work.
>>REGINA: --that haven't been
able to find jobs for years,
and so they're just
taken out of the tally.
But also, the whole next
generation, my son's generation
and younger, these guys, their
degrees are worth nothing.
It's toilet paper.
They're not going to get--
unless you have a highly
specialized area, a
certain kind of tech jobs,
engineering, medical,
at a higher end.
Other than that there's just
not that much out there.
>>FARBER: There's not.
And a lot of them are going
to have to leave the country.
I know that that
sounds crazy, but they
might have to be the
interesting sounding foreigner
in another country
the way we have
so many interesting
sounding foreigners
that used to come to--
>>REGINA: That,
you're seeing now?
>>FARBER: I do actually.
I think a lot of
people are going
to start going to
other countries
because the other
countries will want
to have someone who has that
nice American accent the way
we have people that want
the nice French accent,
or the British
accent, or whatever.
And there are a lot
of smart people here.
Unfortunately they're
not in government,
and they are not doing
what they should be doing.
They're not leading.
In the book of Tao, it says, one
who would lead must follow all.
They are not out for me,
and you, and your son.
They're out to get elected.
For what reason, I have no idea.
>>REGINA: Well, and this
is happening not just
at the younger end of the
spectrum, this leaving
the country you're mentioning.
I was in Chiang Mai,
Thailand, a few years ago,
and there's a huge ex-pat
community of pensioners.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: British and American.
Because for $1,200 a month
you can live very, very well.
>>FARBER: You can.
>>REGINA: Where
you can barely eat
food that's not out of a can
from a discount warehouse here.
>>FARBER: No.
I've seen it happening.
And then you have
a lot of people
renouncing their
American citizenship.
One of the founders of I
think Google, no, no Facebook,
just became a
citizen of Singapore.
Then you have
Denise Rich, and she
renounced her
American citizenship.
I think she went to Austria.
And I live out in the Hamptons.
They go where the money is.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about your people out there
because that's a
very wealthy area,
and it's very different
than how most of us live.
And so we're watching
programs on the big screen
or little screen, including
shows directly located
in the Hamptons,
and saying, oh yeah,
that's how the other half lives.
So you deal with a lot
of wealthy and famous.
>>FARBER: I do.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
from that perspective what's
happening with money, what
the psychology is, and then we
can trickle the
conversation from there.
>>FARBER: They're just
like us if we had money.
They worry about keeping it.
They worry about getting more.
I mean, one classic example is,
I write books like my "Qauntum
Affirmations" books about how
individuals-- because we each
create our own future,
our own destiny.
I know that that's a fact.
And just because
the world economy
is going in the toilet-- I
use my "Qauntum Affirmations"
thing, I'm doing fine.
I'm worried about the world
because I'm an Aquarius.
And I know you have
a moon in Aquarius,
so we care about the future.
We care about other
people because we're
pretty strong
people individually.
So, I want to help people.
They are worried
about keeping it,
they're worried about
their family keeping it.
They're exactly like
us except the problems
are the problems
of having money.
And so, they don't
really-- a lot
of them are very charitable.
And a lot of them
are just like you
and me that somehow
have all this money.
But they're as worried about
the government as we are.
A lot of the wealthy--
>>REGINA: It's just
a different scale.
>>FARBER: Well, they
don't feel like they're
being protected either.
They think that
they're being hung out
to dry as rich people are
bad, and that for some reason
they're not entitled to have
what they're supposed to have.
And if you really want
to be a spiritual person,
you can't be a spiritual
person and then
say rich people are bad.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: You have
to like everybody.
>>REGINA: We are going to
talk about that in some depth,
but I wanted to go on another
track for a moment with them.
>>FARBER: Sure.
>>REGINA: You wrote
in your book that fear
is endemic to humanity.
It's not like just
because you're
wealthy you don't have fears.
You have fears.
>>FARBER: They have more.
>>REGINA: Often
more, but I wanted
to ask you about the
qualitative difference
when you're reading
for people and you're
looking at the picture at large.
You liken their fears to being
on a roller coaster ride.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's like
oh, here you have it,
and boom, you
better hang onto it.
It's almost a thrill
factor involved.
Where for a woman who
has a couple of kids,
sole support for her family,
and has lost her job,
now that's a kind of
bone-crushing fear of survival.
A different kind of fear.
>>FARBER: It's much--
yes-- it's much worse.
When I do work with
someone in that situation,
my main concern is that they
calibrate their aspirations,
what they want to affirm.
And that's where I was
going before-- which I just
realized that's where I was
going before-- is that I tell
them, what you should be
affirming is my bills are paid,
and seeing your bills paid
with the problems that
come with your bills paid.
Because my "Quantum
Affirmations"
is all about seeing the good
and the bad of everything
because everything
is good and bad.
When you get a billion
dollars, the first thing
you're worried about is, oh
my god, it's only $1 billion.
>>REGINA: And the government
will take more than half.
>>FARBER: They'll take more than
half, and what about the guy--
When I worked on a movie
called "The Money Pit,"
and I worked with a very,
very wealthy person--
>>REGINA: I remember.
>>FARBER: I realized that
no wealthy person thinks
they're wealthy because
they know someone who's
much more wealthy than they are.
So they think that, oh my
god-- it's the law of one
but it's a different version.
It's like I only have
$1 million, or I only
have one $10 million I
only have one $100 million.
They worry about things
because the human condition
seems to be one of worry.
So I try and get people to
keep things in perspective.
You should have as your
goal your bills are paid,
your kids are healthy, you have
enough money for-- Don't, I
want to see myself
winning the lottery,
because if you win
the lottery you're
going to lose half
of it or more,
and the relatives will
come out of the woodwork,
and you'll screw it up somehow.
And I once was working with
someone who was very wealthy.
And I was telling him I
was writing this book.
And he says, wow,
I'm going to do that.
I'm going to visualize
asking for a billion dollars.
And I was like, what?
And I realized, well, he
has a few hundred million,
why shouldn't he be asking
for a billion dollars?
And I realized, wow, it
really is true, isn't it?
And that's what was going on,
and that is what's going on.
They are afraid of losing it.
They are afraid--
and this is going
to sound so odd, especially in
inherited situations-- they're
worried about seeming
bad to their family
or to their father
or their mother,
or screwing up the dynasty.
You know, in Japan they adopt
people to run companies.
When they say a company has been
family run for 400 years or 300
years--
>>REGINA: It doesn't
mean biological.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
They have adopted people.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>FARBER: Yes.
Adults.
>>REGINA: To do that.
>>REGINA: They
have adopted adults
who they feel can
run their companies.
I mean, the world
is a crazy place.
Maybe we could adopt some
people in the United States
to run some things.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
No kidding.
OK.
So you're talking about scalable
solutions and affirmations,
so if a person is in that
position, as you said,
you want to have the security
of knowing your bills are paid--
>>FARBER: Bills are paid.
>>REGINA: --your
children are fed,
and your children are
healthy, and that's
where you really begin.
>>FARBER: That's attainable.
Because that is attainable.
And that is what I try
and make people see.
I feel like a rich person.
And when I'm working with
my friends who really
are what the newspapers
would call a rich person,
I will say sometimes,
let me buy you dinner.
And they'll say, no, no.
And I'll say, but I'm rich.
And they laugh, and they laugh.
But then they say,
you know what?
You really are rich
because I don't
have the fears that they do.
Exactly what you said.
A lot of them, the money
doesn't solve anything.
It sort of makes their life more
miserable because first of all,
they don't know if
anyone likes them
for themselves or
for their money.
It's like being
attractive, as you know.
Are people liking you
because you're attractive?
Are people liking you because
you're in show business,
or are people liking you--
It's the same exact thing.
Or do people want what I want
to say or do they want to know
what the psychic
voice has to say?
So it's all very logical.
It just requires
putting yourself
in someone else's position.
And that's why
learning astrology
is so useful because it helps
you to realize the ways we're
all the same and the
ways we're all different.
>>REGINA: And what you
mentioned a moment ago
is something that was reflected
to me, and that I think
is so important to consider.
Just what you said.
I was interviewing
John Demartini,
and he was talking about
the hierarchy of values.
And oftentimes, people are
not honest with themselves
about what they
genuinely value in life.
So, say you lose your
job, but your job
was just there to pay the bills.
It's not your passion.
Money isn't even your passion,
it's a means to an end.
And you suddenly start
changing your affirmation
to I need to have a job making
$50 or $100 or $150,000 a year.
And it's born out
of fear and panic.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: When your hierarchy
of values may actually be
you want to spend as
much time as possible
with your family and loved ones.
And you have this
conflict going on.
How do you deal with people that
have these conflicting value
systems where they're saying
they want one thing out of fear
but, in reality, they want
something entirely different?
>>FARBER: Well, in the five-fold
technique that I didn't really
evolve for the "Quantum
Affirmations" book,
I found that I've
used it my whole life.
The first thing is
identify your goal.
And this is, for some people,
the hardest thing in the world.
And when I do psychic
readings for people I'll say,
what you want?
And people look at me
like, well I don't know,
or I want a million dollars.
I say, no.
Or, I want to find my soulmate.
And what they really
mean is I want
to feel good about living
alone because I don't want
a guy coming in and
messing up my life,
and I want to feel
good about it.
The hierarchy of values
that I try and teach people
is what do you really want.
And basically, what you want
is to be healthy and have
your bills paid.
That you can do.
Set that as your goal first.
You can build on them of course.
And I'm not saying that I don't
want-- my reach doesn't exceed
my grasp, like the saying goes.
But keep your goals
logical, and keep
them scale-- like you
said, scalability.
It's keep them
scalable to your life.
And then you'll attain them.
>>REGINA: And truthful.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because--
And what's real.
>>REGINA: --if you have those
things taken care of maybe
what you really love is doing
triathlons, or whatever.
>>FARBER: And you
need time for that.
>>REGINA: Photography.
Exactly.
And you need time,
you need to just not
have the fear on your plate of
taking care of the essentials.
>>FARBER: It's true.
And I work from my own case,
what has worked for me.
Because I'm just some
kid from Brooklyn
with a mentally ill mother
and a police sergeant father,
and I've done really
well for myself.
I have a wonderful relationship
for 38 years, which
is my greatest
achievement, and the thing
that I value the most.
>>REGINA: And that's why you're
so wealthy because you put that
at the top of your--
>>FARBER: And they know it.
>>REGINA: --hierarchy of values.
>>FARBER: Put the
relationship first
is the secret of our book.
We did a book called
"A Soulmate Path,"
and we were asked to do
a book on relationships.
They said, we want
to know your secrets.
And we said, we don't
have any secrets.
And they said, well, you
better get some secrets
because we want you
to do this book.
It turned out, when we
sat down to write it,
as often happens, we
realized, individually,
in different rooms, put
the relationship first
as the reason, ahead of your
kids, ahead of your parents,
ahead of your
friends, or your pets.
And that's why we've had
this great relationship.
>>REGINA: So you've
attained wealth.
>>FARBER: That's real wealth.
>>REGINA: That's right.
On your scale and in
your priority of values.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: So that's number
one on an individual level,
for everyone.
>>FARBER: Yes.
Well, the--
>>REGINA: You have
to identify that.
>>FARBER: --first
rule of warfare
is make your base secure.
So, this is what I don't
like about the government
because our base is not secure.
>>REGINA: No.
>>FARBER: And this guy Col.
Clausewitz, who was
the founder of-- who
wrote the book on
modern warfare way
back-- he's was
Prussian colonel.
It makes so much sense.
If you're standing
on a teeter-totter,
you can't-- like, the
United States is standing
on a teeter-totter telling
the world what to do.
And everyone's laughing
because-- put your house
in order before you start--
United States has a lot
of smart people and--
>>REGINA: A lot of
psychopaths, too.
>>FARBER: A lot of psychopaths.
And one would say
that people who
want to do these kind of
financial shenanigans,
and the credit default
swaps, and all this stuff
without considering
what it's going
to do the world-- I personally
know people who were affected
by the Qualcomm disaster,
and by the Enron disaster.
Lost everything.
These are people in
their 70s and 80s.
And my wife shows her clothes
at Bergdorf Goodman, crossroads
of the world, Fifth Avenue,
57th Street, Manhattan,
most expensive real estate.
Tiffany's, store
out of business,
store out of business,
store-- still, since 2008.
And this is what I don't like
about what our government is
doing at the local, city,
state-- it's not just
the president.
There is a lack of leadership.
They are not doing
what has to be done.
They are not making
their base secure.
And that's what I try and tell
people on an individual level.
Make your base secure,
your bills are paid
and you're healthy.
>>REGINA: OK.
So that's it for us on
just a really basic level
in terms of--
>>FARBER: But it's so important.
>>REGINA: It's very,
very important.
And also your book
"Quantum Affirmations,"
you call them quantumplations.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: I love it.
That also guides
people through that,
is how to really get honest.
One thing you've done
here, it's not airy-fairy.
It's about--
>>FARBER: It works.
>>REGINA: --Down and dirty,
getting honest with yourself.
>>FARBER: I drive a really
nice car, I eat really well,
and I don't worry about money.
And how many people can say
they don't worry about money?
I have money coming in every
month because-- it's not a lot,
but it's enough to pay my bills.
>>REGINA: Enough that you're
rich in the real sense
of the word.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
And my health, of course
your health-- Grandmother's
always say, aw, as long
as you've got your health.
It's so true.
That's how cliches become
cliches, they're true.
>>REGINA: It is.
Now I want to go into a bit
more of the macro picture
because for people
that are looking
at investments at large, kind
of watching world economies--
I read a couple of
your interviews.
I took excerpts out
from here and there.
>>FARBER: You mean like from--
>>REGINA: From
with other people.
And one of the things--
>>FARBER: Like the Indian--
>>REGINA: --you were.
I think so.
>>FARBER: That was good.
>>REGINA: That was a good one.
And it struck me--
>>FARBER: From India, not--
>>REGINA: Yeah. --as being kind
of counterintuitive to some
of what we would hear here.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I want to
bring these topics up
because they very
much relate to anyone
who's watching this
in any country.
And one of the things you were
saying is that the nations
of the world-- here we're all
global, one world economy,
and there is a lot of
that going on almost--
>>FARBER: Well, of course.
>>REGINA: --in certain ways
because of what we've set up.
>>FARBER: It's
enforced by the reality
of electronic communications.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>FARBER: That's the one world.
But there's tremendous pushback.
>>REGINA: And what
you're saying here
is that "the
nations of the world
are starting to put their
economies," you said the word,
"in protective boxes."
>>FARBER: Germany is
the classic example.
>>REGINA: Yeah, let's talk
about Germany for a moment.
>>FARBER: Why did they succeed?
Because they were the
first one to do it.
I mean, they won
World War II when
it comes down to it,
in a certain sense.
They came out of
the war destroyed,
and now they're back.
They've been unified.
And if you want to look
at things-- and Japan
didn't do that bad either.
I mean the best thing to do
is to lose a war to the United
States.
Then we help rebuild you, and
then we're in a lot of trouble,
and then Germany and--
But what do they do?
They make a product
that people want to buy.
And this is what
happens to the United
States is because we got
into financial instruments
as a way of making money--
>>REGINA: Instead of production.
>>FARBER: --and
outsourced production.
But anyway, what you
were saying is true.
Let's say you are
in Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia is planning
for the end of oil.
The really smart ones there
are planning for oil to stop.
And so they can be
predicted, if you realize
that's where
they're coming from.
Each country is not rushing
to embrace the one world.
All these people who are afraid
of the globalist, one world
thing, that's not true.
If you think about it,
everybody is out for themself.
If you don't think
everyone's out for yourself,
you don't know astrology
and you don't human nature.
So every nation is
out for themselves
no matter whether
they're in the EU,
or whether they're in
any kind of alliance.
They're still out for themself.
So with all the electronic
communications going on,
they're trying to
figure out, how
can I leverage this to help me?
And they're not
necessarily thinking,
how can I leverage
this to help my people?
Because they think
they are their people.
And if things go well for
them, it'll trickle down.
We're not the only ones
with trickle down economy.
I hope I'm answering
the question--
>>REGINA: No, you
are answering--
>>FARBER: --because
it's a great question.
>>REGINA: You are
answering the question.
And I want to take that a
little further because what
you said on the heels of that.
When people are now starting to
analyze a stock, for example,
and you have to look at where
that stock originates from.
Maybe you have to
look at that-- well,
not talk commodities
for a moment--
>>FARBER: That's why
EFTs are doing so well.
People realize that
the game is stacked.
So they're going with the EFTs
now, which are like a fund,
but-- they have
grown like 65-- I
think they have $1.3 trillion
dollars in those kind of funds.
>>REGINA: And
you're saying, when
you're looking and
evaluating any of this,
look more to the country
that is at the base of it.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Don't look so much to
the stock or even the commodity
so much as the stability of a
given country associated with
that particular product
you're looking at buying,
whether it's an EFT--
>>FARBER: The political
stability for sure.
It is so totally individual
in terms of-- They
still do have a chart.
And if you really do
want to get into it,
you probably could get into it,
but there's too many variables
now.
The stock market used
to be the United States.
That's where it started, with
people yelling up at a window.
And once you get
into the situation
where the markets
are opening in Asia,
the markets are
opening in Europe,
you're a little too complex.
OK, so then what
are you going to do?
You're going to
out-- I read today
that they're starting to use the
supercomputers to study cancer.
They've been using
the supercomputers
to study money since there were
supercomputers because that's
what keeps the supercomputers
funded is money.
So unfortunately, they put
money ahead of all things.
>>REGINA: So what have the
supercomputers guided us
to now?
>>FARBER: They have put us
into program trading, where
they are programmed to--
I think I was saying
that Eric Schmidt
or someone at Google
is going to sell a lot of
his stock, like a billion
or $2 billion.
I have to read this stuff.
First of all, it's
very intriguing to me.
It's like a soap opera.
When he sells his
stock, it immediately
made the stock go down,
just the report that he's
going to do it.
But the computers, if
they see a big move,
they swing to hedge
against a big move that's
going to catch them and
bite them in the butt.
And that can swing--
now they have
brakes on computer trading.
And they'll say that,
computer trading has
been halted because
the computers will
bring the whole thing down.
It's like the
sorcerer's apprentice.
>>REGINA: Well that's
why we were saying
at the beginning of
this conversation
that you can't really use
celestial influences anymore.
>>FARBER: Not like you could.
It's four years ago
you really had to stop.
It's about four years.
Because for a while
there it was sill working
because they were still
getting the bugs out of stuff.
But now-- I know
I'm going to anger
a lot of financial
astrologers, but I frankly
don't care, because I'm more
concerned with the people.
I'm worried about people who
are putting their savings,
like the people
that I know who are
right now broke because they
put their money in Enron.
Like my friend, who I advise
tremendously, and then
found out that he
lost $4 million
with-- what's that
crazy guy's name?
>>REGINA: Madoff.
>>FARBER: --with Bernie Madoff.
And I said, you'll ask me
if you should go to the john
and you didn't ask me if you
should invest with Madoff.
He said, I thought
it was a sure thing.
People think this
stuff is a sure thing.
And there's--
>>REGINA: Well, it sounds good.
>>FARBER: --no such thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah, there
is no such thing.
>>FARBER: No such thing.
Even United States bonds
are not a sure thing.
>>REGINA: Well let's talk
about that from a historical
and also a psychic
point of view.
>>FARBER: OK.
>>REGINA: I know a lot of
people are running to bonds.
What about like local municipal
bonds and state bonds, and--
>>FARBER: Well,
there's a company
called PIMCO that
sells all the bonds.
And they think-- they are so
negative on the United States
economy, I am amazed
anybody buys any bonds.
All you have to do is
look up PIMCO, P-I-M-C-O,
and just read what they-- their
analysis of the US economy is
terrible because they just don't
see it as being sustainable.
The quantitative easing, that
the Federal Reserve basically--
My name is Monte, so it's the
old three-card shell game,
you know, I've got
three cards here.
That's, basically, what's
going on as a way of kicking
the can down the road and
not facing the austerity that
is necessary to keep
the entitlements
and the various crazy spending
from bringing us down.
>>REGINA: So what are
you looking at then
from a sheerly psychic point of
view in terms of predictions.
First of all, let's
say, you're on record
with a lot of predictions
that have gone very well.
I know the Jim Cramer,
his show, "The Street,"
they've used your predictions.
>>FARBER: For a couple of years,
until they had new management,
they did.
I think someone was
like, we have a psychic?
You know.
It came creeping up
on them because they--
>>REGINA: Were you swept away
under the rug out the door.
>>FARBER: Well, they
just said, well sorry.
You know, at the end they
were really listening to me.
It started out as a joke because
they interviewed me and Amy
because Amy is a
fashion designer who
sells her work for $4,000 to
$5,000 at Bergdorf Goodman,
and I have my own
shelves at Barnes & Noble
for all my books.
I've done 40-something
books, I've
sold two million
books in 14 languages.
So they thought, aw, isn't this
cute, let's do a little story.
And then at the
end they said said,
well, let's do a segment
on your predictions.
And this was before Obama
was beating Hillary.
And they asked me
seven questions.
I was right, six out of seven.
So then they
started coming back.
And then, if you
go to "The Street"
and put in Monte
Farber, Monte with an E,
you'll see all these videos of
all of the predictions I did.
And then they really
gauged me and watched me.
And then, by the end, they were
coming with a list of stocks.
Everybody in the office wanted
to know if they should--
>>FARBER: I read about that.
And they were rattling them off,
and you were just getting a--
>>FARBER: I would
said what I saw.
>>REGINA: --an intuitive
quick response.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
My favorite one is
when they said BP.
I said, big trouble coming.
When it tumbles out
like that-- and that
was before the Event Horizon
blowout, which was so horrible.
You want to be
right as a psychic,
but sometimes you're right
about horrible things.
I don't want people think I'm
excited about the BP blowout,
but I want to be right.
Just like everybody wants to
be better at what they do,
I want to be a better
psychic because, as I said,
when I'm wrong, it's me.
It's not the psychic
information that's wrong,
it's I have not gotten
out of my own way
to the point where I'm
getting the right info.
The info is-- it's like the
"X Files," it's out there.
>>REGINA: Well at 80%
we'll still go ahead,
and I'm going to try
you on a few things.
OK?
>>FARBER: Go right ahead.
>>REGINA: I'll assume that
you're out of the way.
>>FARBER: That's what I do.
>>REGINA: So first of
all, let's look at China
because, of course, the media
is trying to build China
into the bugaboo, you
know, the new boogie man.
So let's talk about what--
>>FARBER: New kid on the block.
>>REGINA: New kid on the block.
Exactly.
And massive amounts
of wealth tucked away.
>>FARBER: They have our wealth.
>>REGINA: And our
wealth tucked away.
>>FARBER: We sent it
them to manufacture.
>>REGINA: And metals,
lots of gold and so forth.
But what's really going on with
China from your point of view?
>>FARBER: They have
tremendous problems.
They are holding
on-- I mean, they
have 150 million people
as itinerant workers.
That's 150 million
people, that's
almost half the population
of the United States, that's
on the move looking for work.
That's why when
holidays come-- they
have these big holidays
where you're supposed
to honor your relatives-- they
have trains and disasters.
And there's riots
all over the place
because there's a
lot of corruption.
They have a lot of problems.
I'm not saying that
their military is not
growing leaps and bounds, and
doing all the other stuff.
But I think they
are taking care--
they are making
their base secure.
>>REGINA: They're making
their base secure,
but they also own lot of us.
>>FARBER: They own a lot
of our debt, for sure.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's what I mean.
>>FARBER: And at a
certain point you
want to go over to the people
that owe you a lot of money
and say, you know, you
guys better straighten out.
I'm not saying
that they're going
to attack us or
anything like that,
but they have every
right to complain
if they don't get paid back.
And they're the ones who
have a lot of our bonds,
and a lot of our debt.
And they have a lot of our cash.
And when the dollar
goes down, of course, we
don't notice it that much
because I'm giving you dollars
and you're giving me dollars.
They notice it a lot
because all of a sudden,
well, we have a
trillion dollars and it
buys half of what it bought.
And then, all of a sudden--
half is definitely not
the right number, but that gives
you the idea-- all of a sudden
they are upset.
So I wouldn't be surprised
if they were making moves
to make the renminbi,
or whatever it's called,
the world currency, or
changing the world currency,
or changing the
whole world finances.
If they see that
they could do it,
they'll do it because they don't
have the constraints that we
do with democracy or a
republic, a democratic republic.
If they see a way where--
I know that there's
talk about making a different
global currency for oil
purchases where there's going
to be a basket of currencies,
and all that kind of stuff.
So the way I work as
a psychic, let's say
you wanted to invest in an
oil or an individual EFT
or something like
that, you would then
come to me as a psychic,
I would tell you
what I got about
the whole thing,
because, as our
conversation reveals,
it's a very complex
financial world.
And I think anyone
who makes money now
has to break it into a very
small manageable little piece
of jerky off of the big piece
of jerky, or else nothing.
You can't swallow it.
>>FARBER: So they have their
own internal problems in China.
>>FARBER: Big time.
>>REGINA: They need to almost
do this strange little dance
with us, even though
we're indebted to them.
>>FARBER: They do.
>>REGINA: They
can't really afford
to see the Western world slide.
>>FARBER: They can't, but at the
same time, they're very upset.
And they are sort
of encircling us.
I mean, they own the docks,
the ports that the others--
both sides of the Panama Canal.
The United States,
under Carter, sold
the-- got rid of the Panama
Canal, gave it back to Panama.
China is all over the world
looking for resources, oil
and--
>>REGINA: Precious minerals.
metals, all of it.
>>FARBER: The earth met--
>>REGINA: Right,
the earth metals.
Yeah, precious earth minerals.
>>FARBER: The ones that are used
for like cell phones and all
that stuff.
The rare earth minerals.
We now import them.
The United States has
not made its base secure.
It is buying military equipment
from outside the United States.
We can go on for days
about this stuff.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let me ask you about India.
I'll get around to
the US toward the end.
What about India?
>>FARBER: Big problems also.
Tremendous problems.
Their caste system is
a tremendous problem,
and I mean that economically,
because with all the focusing
we're doing on finances I never
lose sight of the spiritual.
Without love you're
nothing but sounding brass,
it says in the Bible.
And you can't have
a society that's
caste system'd like that and
expect it to succeed because it
goes in the face of love.
And love is really-- love
and greed and fear-- I mean,
those are the big ones.
>>REGINA: The big commodities.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
And when someone comes
to me to ask a question,
usually the first question,
if they're not paying me,
is about love.
If they're paying
me, it's about money.
And in New York, a lot of
it is about will I ever find
an apartment or stuff like that.
But look, if India's problems,
besides the population,
is the caste system
because it eats away
at the soul of the country.
And I actually, when I'm
doing it psychically,
it's pure, I don't know
where it's coming from.
I don't know about armies
or anything like that.
But when I try and understand
why I'm getting the information
about India, it seems to always
come back to that they don't--
>>REGINA: Until that part
is healed and evolved.
>>FARBER: --like
their own people.
They have people that
they're calling untouchables.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: I mean, to us, those
are the gangster fighters.
They're just horrible.
>>REGINA: So, too many
disenfranchised individuals
in India to really holistically
grow the economy where
they would like to
go even, or to be
a really prominent player?
>>FARBER: They are
a prominent player,
but they will undermine
themselves as a nation
unless they clean up.
I mean, right now there's all
those rape stories coming out
of India, which is disgusting.
That's a big-- see, I always
thought that the problems that
occur in the world
are because men
and women, in their individual
experiences, are not--
and partnerships in general,
not just men and woman.
I don't want be a sexist.
If you can't keep things
straight at home, it goes out.
And in that country
they obviously
have big, big problems because
of-- I mean, talk about racism.
When you call
people untouchables.
>>REGINA: No, I understand.
>>FARBER: But in terms of--
India is just starting,
they're just waking up, but
they have tremendous problems
with Pakistan.
Pakistan has nuclear weapons,
India has nuclear weapons.
There's the problems
with Kashmir.
But if you ask me psychically,
I'll just tell you,
should you invest in
this stock in India,
and I'll say yes or no.
I think everyone should go
to their psychic development
because there's no way to
know intellectually now.
>>REGINA: I totally
agree with that.
We're on our own when
it comes to trying
to understand and contend
with the world, not just
the economy, but
the world at large.
We really need to invest in
our own psychic development.
>>FARBER: I really think so.
That's why I try and-- I'm
a big do-it-yourselfer.
All of my books-- I mean,
I wasn't born psychic.
I didn't realize I was.
I must have been a little bit.
But from 1988, when my first
book, "Karma Cards," came out,
I've been writing these books.
And all these books
I would say, and this
will improve your
intuition, and it did.
And writing the books,
and using all the things
that I do has improved
my intuition to the point
where when, unfortunately, when
my mother-in-law passed away,
we missed her so much-- she
was a wonderful person-- when
she passed away I
wanted to reach her.
And I tried and I was able to.
And then I started doing
readings for friends,
and I started getting
this amazing stuff.
The information we got
about Amy's mother,
we didn't know if
it was right or not,
but Amy's grandmother
was still alive
and we asked her and she was
like, how did you know that?
So I knew there was
something to it.
And so if I can develop
psychic ability,
anyone can develop
psychic ability
If they do it with love.
Because you've got to care
about the people you read for.
And that's why you can't
be sitting there going well
this person has 50
cars and an airplane,
and-- that doesn't work
because you'll never get it
if you think that
way about them.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And about yourself.
And so what we'll
talk about that.
I want to ask about the United
States because in an odd way,
you have a little bit of
a kind of bullish attitude
about the American economy.
>>FARBER: Very much so.
>>REGINA: Why is that when all
these other pieces of evidence
would indicate it's
just a house of cards?
>>FARBER: Well, because
I'm doing readings
for these people of
all stages, people
who are managers and
CEOs, and they're smart.
Everyone's running for
shelter in their own manner.
And just the way
the untouchables
and the caste system eats away
at the fabric of that society,
the fact that America was
founded by rugged individuals--
and that is the paradigm
of this nation, is I
am going to be an individual.
That's why there's this
dichotomy coming to the country
now.
Because every time
they try and pass
a law that makes
people less able to be
the rugged individual,
or less able to relate
to the founding fathers,
and the minutemen,
and I'll save you now.
It's like Dudley Do-Right.
The people of this country--
it's just like many years ago.
Remember when Japan
was on the ascendancy?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>FARBER: And they
were coming over here.
They bought Sony,
they bought all this--
>>REGINA: Oh yeah.
All this real estate.
>>FARBER: --other kind of stuff.
A few years later,
they don't have it
because American people--
and the British people
are smart too.
Everyone is smart.
I'm not saying that we
have some monopoly on it.
It's just that the
United States, the model
exists for I will
protect you, Nell.
Even though that's-- Dudley
Do-Right is a Canadian mountie,
so that's, I guess,
not the best example.
But, the people that I know with
a lot of money, they're taking,
they're taking stock and
they're making moves now.
After the election
they're making moves.
And I have to say, because
a lot of the people
that I read for go to
that Herb Allen thing.
You know, the Allen & Company
is a big investment bank.
And they do something in,
I think it's Sun Valley,
Idaho, where they fly
the creme de la creme.
>>REGINA: Oh yes, I remember.
That was recently.
>>FARBER: Well they
do it every year.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
They came in recently, yeah.
>>FARBER: Before 2008
they knew it was coming.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, the people that I
talked to knew it was coming.
I was warned by a
few different people.
>>FARBER: And I didn't
believe it intellectually.
But they said-- I got calls
from different people-- saying
everyone here is scared,
what should I do?
>>REGINA: So what
are they doing now?
What are they doing that
would make you feel--
>>FARBER: They're buying a
lot of things in New Zealand,
I'll tell you that.
>>REGINA: Well, OK.
>>FARBER: The land
that produces food
is being bought tremendously.
>>REGINA: Now what about that in
general, even in this country.
If you're an individual and
you have a little money,
and you could--
>>FARBER: They're putting
it into food producing
land, commodities because, once
again, commodities are still--
the game is not so
rigged with commodities.
As I said before,
they're very worried
about the leadership
of this country.
A lot of them are
renouncing citizenship,
a lot of people
moving to Switzerland
because Switzerland's
banking laws are changing.
>>REGINA: But how is that
going to help the US?
Your very wealthy friends
moving to Switzerland,
how is that helping
the US economy?
>>FARBER: Because this
is where they play.
That's where they live.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: Because
the United States
economy is still free enough
where you can do stuff.
A lot of the countries,
the laws are so stacked.
A lot of countries,
you can't own the land.
The government owns the land.
Whereas, in the United States,
like a state like Pennsylvania,
you can own the mineral
rights, someone else
can own the surface rights,
the state doesn't own anything.
But if you go to some
of the African countries
or some of the
other countries, you
have to play with the government
because they own everything.
>>REGINA: Right.
So that's one, that
area of freedom.
>>FARBER: And plus,
the United States
is going to do the-- I'm
sure you talk about here--
the energy stuff
is going to change.
Just like we invented,
not inv-- like Al Gore
invented the internet.
There's a lot of
innovation comes out
of the United States because
of our national character,
and the people that come here.
People always have to remember
that the people who've
come to the United States
are either thrown out
of somewhere else, or we are the
nation of everyone who says--
>>REGINA: Or trying to
escape something else.
>>FARBER: Escape, or we
are the people who said,
this is-- I hate this place.
I'm out of here.
I'm going to go do something
because they're not
letting me do what I want to do.
So you have a nation of this.
Our cellular
consciousness is a nation
of people who
thrive on adversity.
So maybe--
>>REGINA: And creativity.
>>FARBER: And create-- exactly.
And creativity is
spirituality to many.
>>REGINA: So you know,
because for years I've
been saying the same thing
in that my feeling was
because of that same spirit
you're talking about,
which I thought would have
really been pushed sooner this.
Honestly, I'm surprised
it's taking us
this long as a
nation to wake up.
I mean, things have
gotten pretty bad.
>>FARBER: Yes,
>>REGINA: But nonetheless,
as you say, embedded within
us is this rebellious,
very personally-- needing
to have that personal
recognition, and freedom,
and sovereignty.
That very thing that
I've been seeing
was going to be the
hallmark that would take us
through these times is the
same thing you're seeing.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>FARBER: You're seeing.
>>FARBER: I do see it.
I mean I get excited.
Intellectually I feel that.
In my heart I feel that.
But I also see it psychically.
Because when I ask about
investments and things
in this country, even though I
go on about how bonds are not
100% safe, when I ask, is
the dollar a safe investment?
Yes it is.
If I ask is the Federal
Reserve going to be destroyed?
No it's not.
You have too big to fail--
>>REGINA: How many people
would pray for that one?
>>FARBER: I know.
But you have too big to fail,
you have too evil to fail also.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
too evil to fail.
>>FARBER: People
have to be real,
because if you're not being
real about what's going on,
you are going to
delude yourself.
Because the whole thing about
getting out of your own way
is yeah, I feel that way.
Well, who cares what I feel?
I want to know what the
Akashic record has to say.
I want to know what
the spirits has to say,
what my mother-in-law has to
say, or my father, or whatever.
We all have to learn to
listen to our intuition purely
and, as Huxley
said, I'm too much
a skeptic not to believe
anything's possible.
>>REGINA: Right.
I like that.
>>FARBER: Yes.
When you do psychic readings,
one of the hardest things
is because you have
to say what you get.
If you see something silly,
you still have to say it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK Let's talk about a
couple of commodities,
the ones that with other
people I interview, and I
read various--
>>FARBER: Gold.
>>REGINA: Newsletters and such.
Yeah That's it, you've got it.
>>FARBER: Talking
about the Anunnaki.
>>REGINA: Well, let's not
talk about the Anunnaki part,
Let's just talk--
>>FARBER: The whole
thing with gold.
>>REGINA: I get it.
The gold things.
>>FARBER: Goldfinger.
>>REGINA: What's going to happen
with gold, and what do you see?
>>FARBER: It's going
to probably go to 3000.
>>REGINA: 3000.
That's consistent with what
some of the other players
in that market are saying.
And you're seeing it from
a psychic perspective.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: What's
also happening--
>>FARBER: But it
won't be right away.
I don't even think that
might be until like 2015.
But it's going to go.
It's not going down,
let's put it --
it's not going to
go back to 200.
>>REGINA: Well, they say
it's been manipulated
to even keep it at
this rate between what?
1650 and 1750,
for months on end.
>>FARBER: Because it
was going up too fast.
And, well, Putin
just bought what?
570 metric tons of gold?
>>REGINA: Yes.
And other countries have
begun repatriating their gold.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: They're
calling it back in.
>>FARBER: Well,
that could happen.
It happened in
the United States.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>FARBER: When gold
was $35 an ounce,
the government called it.
See, this is-- when people
say, oh, the government
won't do this.
They will do some things.
And I-- Will they call in gold?
I don't think so at this point.
But, that's what I get now.
What happens if--
>>REGINA: Things change.
>>FARBER: Because the
future is-- people
don't remember what
phonograph records are.
But a phonograph
record was a needle
in a groove on a circle,
that went around.
And the way it works is the
present moment is the needle,
and there's a million
potential grooves going out.
When I do a psychic reading,
I'm reading the most probable
future-- that's
also quantum physics
is the probable futures.
And that can change.
I'm not trying to cop out,
and I'm usually pretty right,
but I'm not always right.
>>REGINA: Well, reality is
whatever is in a state of flux
by the nanosecond,
that's reality.
Any thought, any
event, anything can
interject itself to change it.
But from what you're
seeing, as a general trend,
so gold looks like that that's--
>>FARBER: Gold is
a solid investment.
>>REGINA:--is going
continue going up?
What about silver?
Does that go right alongside it?
>>FARBER: It does.
>>REGINA: And what other--
>>FARBER: What is it?
It's like it's 40-something now.
>>REGINA: No, it's, I
think it's like 31-ish,
something like that.
>>FARBER: Well
then I just saw 41.
>>REGINA: Unless it
changed in the last day.
You just saw 41, so
it could go back up.
>>FARBER: I just saw 41.
So I think it's
going to go back.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>FARBER: That, I think,
is going to be sooner.
That might be by July.
>>REGINA: OK, interesting.
>>FARBER: Is it OK
to date the program?
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, sure.
Why not?
Go for it.
>>FARBER: OK.
Well, we're talking July 2013.
>>REGINA: OK.
So it could go as
high as 41 by then.
>>FARBER: It might even
go higher than that.
Let me put it to you that way.
I feel very comfortable saying
July of this year for 41.
>>REGINA: OK.
Good.
Thank you.
And what about, I mean in
general, the rare earth
minerals we're talking about,
of which the Chinese own
a huge percentage of them.
That's not really that
practical for people
to try to buy into
as individuals.
>>FARBER: That's really hard.
I guess you'd have to do
an EFT to-- I don't even
know how you'd trade in that.
>>REGINA: But in general,
do you see the up, up,
up because of the
rise in technology?
>>FARBER: I do
think that there's
going to be a reaction
to the sequestration,
and the armaments--
Right now there's
tremendous threat to the
United States military
by the sequestration because
of the budget ceiling,
and all the other stuff.
So they're going to
start making budget cuts.
And usually when
they make budget cuts
to the army and navy
there's tremendous backlash.
I think the pushback is going
to bring a lot of manufacturing
back to the United States
because I think they are going
to see that we cannot buy rare
earth minerals from China.
We just can't.
Talk about a no-brainer.
And I think that
there is going to be
a lot of military manufacturing
brought back to the United
States for parts
and stuff like that.
>>REGINA: What about
manufacturing at large?
I mean, I'm starting
to see now-- you'll
see an advertisement for a
clothing line, proudly made
in the US.
>>FARBER: Well,--
>>REGINA: Has it changed?
>>FARBER: What has
happened is there's
been a leveling-- People
are willing to work for less
in the United States
and people are not
willing to work for less
than other countries,
because wages have
risen in China.
So the people who used to invest
in China now go to Vietnam.
And eventually, that's
going to come up too.
And, you know, there is
this global economy--
there's another country that
lost the war to the United
States, sort of, kind of,
but didn't really lose,
but won, but lost,
but got destroyed,
but made a lot of money.
And now everyone goes
to Vietnam for vacation.
And there's a lot of
manufacturing going on there.
People in this country are
willing to work for less.
And people in those countries
don't want to work for less.
It's a leveling.
>>REGINA: So you
see a resurgence
in the United States?
>>FARBER: Of manufacturing.
>>REGINA: And what
about in Europe?
What do you see happening
in the Eurozone?
>>FARBER: I worry about Europe.
In terms of the economy there,
I don't see movement there.
Because I always
see it as stagnant.
I did think, and, yes, I
still think-- I had to ask,
do I still think?
I do think that the
euro's going to go down.
I just think it's a mistake.
I think it was something
that was tried,
and I don't think
it's gonna stay.
And that will be
very destabilizing
for the world economy for
about seven or eight months.
But I think the smart
money will see it coming.
I haven't heard anything
about it from my people
because, what we were talking
about before with program
trading.
A lot of people who didn't want
to do commodities because they
don't want to get
involved with that stuff,
they trade money now
because they're smart enough
to see the macro,
like you were saying,
and that you can make
money trading the money.
So they're very against
the one world economy
because then there will
be no money trading.
>>REGINA: And on
that note, when you
look at it, again, from an
even larger perspective,
and you add a spiritual
perspective in there,
there are certain-- Well, the
Theo Group, for example, that
is channeled by Sheila Gillette,
and some others as well,
have seen, if you look into the
future of the human species,
we do move toward a one
world government and economy.
But what they've said, not with
the psychology of usuriousness,
and exploitation, and
greed that exists now.
So it really almost has
to be an evolutionary leap
within our own
spiritual development
that could even allow a one
world economy to happen,
it sounds like.
>>FARBER: When you say
that, it sounds wonderful,
and then I'm trying to apply
it to the people that I know.
>>REGINA: It's not
going to happen.
Right?
>>FARBER: You see these
TV shows and someone says,
not on my watch.
Actually that's so
strongly psychically.
They're not gonna
let that happen.
They want their
kids to be wealthy.
>>REGINA: No, I get that.
That's what I'm saying.
It's not going to
happen because it
would take a spiritual
leap of growth.
>>FARBER: It would have to
take a level of acceptance of I
don't need that much.
I have met wealthy
people who say,
I only can put on one
pair of pants a day,
I can only eat
one chicken a day,
and I can only drive
one car at a time.
They are few and far between.
Most of them want
this incredible level.
>>REGINA: But
something's happening
with the younger generation.
And I've brought this
up in other interviews.
They know how to share
in a different way.
You have a lot of the
indigos, or the more evolved--
and even their DNA is
coming in differently
in some cases-- beings that are
coming with a different mass
psychology.
And maybe they're
the ones that are
going to carry forward more
even back to more agrarian
kind of lifestyle and
communal lifestyle.
>>FARBER: Well, they are
buying land for food.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask.
>>FARBER: They need
someone to work it.
You can't do work it
all with machines.
>>REGINA: Oh, and
you see fellows
with cute little
earrings, you know,
they're goats, and
their degrees that
are doing microgreen
gardening and such.
>>FARBER: And you can make
money doing stuff like that.
Well maybe, the children
that the people I
know, when they inherit
the money, they'll
be more equitable with it.
That might be the way
it happens is that,
what my nephew-- because we live
out in the Hamptons-- and he
used to call his friends who
are wealthy the trustafarians.
Maybe the trustafarians,
when they get their money,
they'll be more generous
and they'll try and do
things that create jobs for
all these people like your son,
you were saying.
There are so many people who are
having a hard time getting by.
But I do feel hopeful, and I
do feel bullish on America.
I don't know if it's just
my growing up in the '60s
or whatever-- now
I'm in my 60s--
but I do feel that the world
is evolving and not devolving.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so for the rest of us,
again, back to the basics,
be honest about what
we truly desire,
try to manifest from
that point of view.
Back to the land,
making sure that we
can grow a little bit of food.
The real basics are what
matter again, right?
>>FARBER: And if you're going
to a affirm something, affirm
things that are
within your grasp
because if you
don't, you'll always
be depressed because
you won't attain them.
But if you start your
affirmations logically,
I want my bills paid, I want
a job that pays a decent wage
and that I enjoy with
people that I like,
these are not too many
things to ask for.
Then you can get it,
and then you can do it.
>>REGINA: And this is universal.
We don't have to look
to the stars for that.
>>FARBER: It works in every
language, and every philosophy.
>>REGINA: Monte,
thank you so much.
>>FARBER: Oh, thank you.
>>REGINA: We're
going to continue.
And for an even fuller
history of astrology
and why it does work,
even though it's not
working in these rigged
markets right now--
>>FARBER: It's a great
psychological language.
>>REGINA: --you're going
to want to join us.
We're going to have another
conversation, and that
delves deep into the
history of Earth,
according to Monte's
friend, who you mentioned,
Zecharia Sitchin.
This brings in evidence
for the use of astrology
in ancient times, the 12th
planet, and much more.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.